[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We've thoroughly
exhausted our discussion of node stuff and
now we're ready to move on to
our discussion of web sockets.
And this isn't going to be
much discussion at all,
we're going to get right
back into the COBE.
I just want to remind you we're
gonna use the socket.io library, but
there's many of them out there.
What a web socket connection amounts
to is that there's an initial
http request made from
the browser back to the server.
And in that request it has
a header in it that says,
hey I would like to do web sockets.
Server are you capable of
speaking the web socket protocol?
Now the server may or may not be capable
of doing so but if he is capable of
speaking that protocol, the response that
he gives back will be an upgrade response.
That says, yes let's go ahead and
upgrade ourselves from this normal
boring http connection to
a persistent web socket connection.
So they make a handshake together and
if you're using you most certainly
wanna be using SSL on your web sockets.
Even with all of what we know
about open SSL issues lately.
You want to be using SSL
on your web sockets.
And so they're going to do
a handshake that's secured and
establish a secure web socket connection.
So there's an initially CDB
request that then gets upgraded
to a web socket request and they do
an initial handshake back and forth.
To make sure both of them have agreed on
what protocol they're going to speak and
then everything's good.
So all of that sounds like a fair
amount of complicated work for us to
handle the good news is these frameworks
like socket.io do it all for us.
In fact,
not only does the framework do it for
us the built in web socket object in
the browser handles all that negotiation.
Socket.io is not just web sockets it's
actually an extension on top
of the web socket protocol.
To add even additional features that
web sockets themselves don't have
things like handshakes.
If you send off a message to
the server and you wanna know
that the server sends you sort of an ACK
back to let you know that it got it back.
That's not built into the regular
web socket protocol but
it is built into socket.io and
so they've added some additional
things on top of the protocol,
some additional capabilities.
That's another benefit of
using these frameworks but
of course you don't have to,
so now we're going to get our
hands dirty with writing our own
web socket code using socket.io.
Now at this point I would
normally tell you to do npm
install socket.io.
Now the problem is don't do that yet,
because the problem is just a few days ago
or within the last couple weeks or
something.
Socket.io released an update
where they moved from 0.9 to
1.0 pre-beta or something.
There's been like for almost a year now,
a rewrite in progress but
the official deployed version it
stayed on the zero point nine branch.
All of my example code is
predicated on the 0.9.116 branch.
And, so
if you just do a install socket.io,
you're going to get an incompatible API,
incompatible version of socket.io.
So, now what we want to do is,
we want to specify specifically which
version of socket.io we want to install.
So those of you that are home for the
purposes of the code that I've provided
you're gonna want to get
the 0.9.16 version of socket.io,
those of you here in person.
You already have that version installed
it probably should just work for
you but if not you need to do npm install
package name, the little act symbol and
then the version number
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
[COUGH] let's talk about what
it takes inside of our server.
So let's go ahead and do a Save as on
our 6.server and change it to 7.server.
And then on our 6.html, let's do another
save as and turn that to 7.html.
Make sure you update the 6 and
from the both of the 6 is to 7.
So don't get yourself confused.
Now the 7.server.js we need to
load in our socket.io library.
So we're going to come down to the bottom
of our code and we're going to say,
var socket=, sorry.
IO is what I call it, io equals require
socket.io exactly as you would think.
Now we've required in the library but
we need to tell socket.io to be
listening for incoming requests.
And here's another nicety of
the way this library works because
there's a fair amount
of complexity route in
terms of what the server
needs to do to handle this.
And this server frameworks
gonna do it entirely for us.
So the way we do it is
we tell it to io only
make sure you get this exactly right
[SOUND] where going to say io.listen.
And we want to give it
our http server instance.
So that http_service what I called it.
We want to pass that in,
now what that is basically saying is
I want you to hijack the existing http
server that we've already set up.
And I want you to tell it to listen
also for socket.io connections.
So remember I said socket.io's
a website connection starts
out as a normal http connection
that upgrades itself.
So we always need an http connection so
that we can then upgrade ourselves to
socket.io and
that's the way it works here.
We already have an http connection,
a server running and socket.io.
The library basically comes along and
hijacks it for us.
And it automatically listens for
all of the incoming requests and
it automatically handles any
Web Socket requests for us.
S we're not going to
have to do a single thing
up in our routing logic to
handle anything socket related.
We don't need to touch any
of this code whatsoever.
We just add the io.listen
down here at the bottom,
point it at our http server and
it will start listening.
The last thing that we're gonna do so
save out that file, the last thing
that we're gonna do is verify
that the socket.io library is able
to be loaded into a web page.
So come back to your 7.html, and
at the bottom right before the body,
I want you to add a script tag.
That tries to load /socket.io.,
/socket.io,js.
Now if you're paying close attention
you'll know we don't have a route
set up for
static file serving in fact we don't even
see a socket.io client library anywhere.
How is that going to work?
Well this is the exact same thing
that socket.io server side library is
going to see the requests for that file in
a will automatically handle that for us.
So we don't need to worry about it
all it automatically creates and
sends out the client file for us.
So last thing that we're gonna do in this
html just a verify that we were in fact
able to load up the library is I
just want you to do console.log.
And log out the io object which is
the global that you get from socket.io.
>> Kyle Simpson: Everybody with me?
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
let's come back to our command line,
let's start up our node server.
Now, right off the bat you're gonna
see something different from.
There is no doubt, but
you probably haven't seen before and
that's going to see an info statement
says socket.io was started.
If you don't see that message something's
wrong with your installation so
way that me if you're not seeing
that message from the command line.
Did it give you an error to just
stay blank, that's not good.
>> Kyle Simpson: Put the code back up for
just a moment if you want to check and
double check your server code.
>> Kyle Simpson: Is it working?
Okay, everybody good?
All right, we've got that code running,
let's open up our browser.
Now remember,
I need to change the URL to /7 now, so
that we're loading up the new file,
so I'm gonna load up /7.
Not only do I notice that I've loaded
7.html but here in my web console,
I can see that it printed
out a socket.io object.
So, I verified that it, in fact, was able
to load the client library from the server
into my web page, did everybody
get something roughly like that?